#summary Debian style installation
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured

= Introduction =

Until the packages are completely accepted (and after that for faster updates) Debian packages build for Ubuntu are available at [http://winff.org winff.org] and at my [https://launchpad.net/~paul-climbing/+archive Personal Package Archive (PPA)] provided by [http://launchpad.net Launchpad].

Also a fuller featured ffmpeg is available via [http://www.debian-multimedia.org/].

= Details Winff =

If you are running Debian unstable, WinFF is available just like any other program (maybe you want to read the README.Debian).

If you are running an other version of Debian you can easily install WinFF by using our Ubuntu repositories. The repositories come in two flavors. We provide our *signed* repository at [http://winff.org] or you can use the *unsigned* repository at [https://launchpad.net/~paul-climbing/+archive Launchpad]. We have not received any complains about our prive repo, so that is recommended, but for redundancy we mention Launchpad as well.

If you use the signed repository you need to accept the key [http://winff.org/ubuntu/AAFE086A.gpg AAFE086A]. To get that installed you can run:

{{{
wget --quiet --output-document=- "http://winff.org/ubuntu/AAFE086A.gpg" | sudo apt-key add -
}}}

After that you need to add the repository to apt. You can do that by entering the line (1) in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/winff.list. You will have to create that file, which can be done with the following command:
{{{
echo "deb http://winff.org/ubuntu intrepid universe" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/winff.list
}}}
(Change intrepid to hardy for debian stable). You can also just add the line to /etc/apt/sources.list .

After you update using your favorite package manager (2) you can just choose winff from the list. If you have winff installed from Matt's package file, you might need to uninstall that first. Unfortunately the packages in the PPA are unsigned at the moment so you will have to accept the warning given by your package manager if you use those.

You can install WinFF directly now by running:
{{{
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install winff
}}}

If you don't run the standard ffmpeg and want to make use of the more extended original set of presets, which you can download in the [http://code.google.com/p/winff/downloads/list download] section.

In order to use the preset file supplied with the package you might need to remove the old preset file in ~/.winff/presets.xml , but by doing that you will also remove self-made presets. So if you made or edited the presets, you want to compare the files manually.

----
*If you are having problems* with the described procedure, please file a bug in our [http://code.google.com/p/winff/issues/list bug tracker]. Please include in the bug the output of 
{{{
cat /etc/apt/sources.list.d/winff.list
}}}
and
{{{
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install winff
}}}
----

(1) `deb http://winff.org/ubuntu intrepid universe`
_(or if you prefer the PPA:)_ 
`deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/paul-climbing/ubuntu intrepid main`
(replace intrepid with hardy if you run debian stable)

(2) for instance `sudo apt-get update` or while in synaptic pressing "Reload"

(3) /usr/share/doc/winff/README.Debian

= Details ffmpeg =

Because of legal and copyright issues not all codec are standard available in ffmpeg from Debian. If you don't mind these issues you can install the fuller featured ffmpeg from [http://debian-multimedia.org/]. The full explanation is available at [http://debian-multimedia.org/]. In short the procedure is as follows:

  * Add the GPG Key under root via:
  {{{
  wget http://debian-multimedia.org/gpgkey.pub -O - | apt-key add - && apt-get install debian-multimedia-keyring
  }}}

  * Then add the debian-multimedia repository to your sources, either in /etc/apt/sources.list or /etc/apt/sources.list.d/debian-multimedia:
  {{{
  deb http://www.debian-multimedia.org etch main
  }}}
  or
  {{{
  deb ftp://ftp.debian-multimedia.org etch main
  }}}
  or
  {{{
  deb http://www.debian-multimedia.org stable main
  }}}
  or
  {{{
  deb ftp://ftp.debian-multimedia.org stable main  
  }}}

Now you are ready to install the debian-multimedia version of ffmpeg.

Beware, because the debian-multimedia version of ffmpeg is usually newer, the presets that come with winff might not always work. Please take a look at the [http://www.biggmatt.com/forums/index.php?board=3.0 forum].